# Project Synopsis

In recent years, the impacts of climate change have posed many threats for multi-million-dollar fishing industries. Notably the snow crab, Chionoecetes opilio, population in Alaska collapsed due climate change related pressures. One of the primary drivers of this fishery collapse is thought to be bitter crab disease, caused by a parasitic infection. The snow crab fishery collapse raises questions about how pathogen-host interactions will change with increasing global temperatures. Due to heat stress, immune response suppression can occur in crustaceans and other invertebrates. The coupled impacts of heat stress and immune stress can be severe, and a better understanding of these stressors’ effects has applications in Pacific Northwest fisheries.

Our study used the hairy shore crab, Hemigrapsus oregonensis, as a model organism for the Dungeness crab, Metacarcinus magister. We hypothesized that when posed with an immune stressor, crabs kept under elevated temperatures will have a suppressed immune response, characterized by decreased hemocyte concentrations in their hemolymph. We also hypothesized that crabs treated with elevated temperatures and immune stress will experience elevated respiration levels, increased righting time, and decreased hemolymph glucose in response to chronic stress.

We investigated the impacts of elevated temperature on immune response in H. oregonensis through three treatment groups of 6 crabs each: 27˚C only, 27˚C with mud, and 13˚C with mud. Control crabs were maintained in a communal control tank at 13˚C. The mud was collected from Golden Gardens in Seattle, WA, and acts as the immune stressor, as it carries pathogens H. oregonensis would encounter in their environment. 

Our results showed signs of immune suppression in H. oregonensis. In the 27˚C with mud treatment, after one week of exposure the hemocyte concentration was significantly elevated from all other treatments. After a second week, the hemocyte concentration significantly decreased, suggesting evidence of hemocyte suppression. The glucose levels of 27˚C with mud treatment crabs was not significantly different from the control crabs after the first week. The spike in 27˚C with mud hemolymph glucose concentration seen in week 2 can be attributed to the consumption of a conspecific during the second week. The respiration rate of the 27˚C treatment with mud was not elevated above our control values, however the 13˚C with mud treatment crabs had a respiration rate of close to double that of the control crabs. 

Overall, our results show that elevated temperatures result in a stronger initial immune response, followed by possible immune suppression. This indicates significant stress to the organism, and as a result, a significant energy expenditure. The more energy Dungeness crabs must devote to an immune response, the less energy they will have for growth and reproduction. This poses a concern for crab fisheries in the Pacific Northwest.

